This document provides instructions on how to log into the Savio high performance computing (HPC) cluster at the University of California, Berkeley.

Unlike most remote computer systems that you may have encountered to date, when logging into the Savio cluster (via SSH), you'll need to enter a password that changes each time you log in. You'll generate this password using a One Time Password (OTP) application named Google Authenticator.

Requiring time-expiring, one-time-use passwords helps protect your work and data from unauthorized access - and potential damage or alteration - by intruders. Moreover, it helps protect the cluster itself from attacks, so that it can remain highly available to the campus community.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

*IMPORTANT NOTE : Migration from Pledge to Google Authenticator*

*From July 1, 2016-on, the BRC One Time Password service no longer uses the Pledge application; instead, BRC One Time Passwords are generated using Google Authenticator.*

*If you are currently authenticating using OTPs generated by Pledge, you can continue to do so for now, but we request that you migrate from Pledge to Google Authenticator as soon as possible by following the instructions below.*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Installing and setting up Google Authenticator on a mobile device {#installing-and-setting-up-google-authenticator-on-a-mobile-device}

Before you can log into the Savio cluster for the first time, you will need to install and set up Google Authenticator on at least one mobile device: a smartphone or tablet running Android or iOS.

(There are no clients currently available for laptops or desktops; BRC is exploring options for use on such devices.)

1.  In the Google Play store or iOS App Store on your smartphone or tablet, search for and install "Google Authenticator". Or else click the direct link in the relevant button below:

\[\[{"fid":"243","view\_mode":"default","fields":{"format":"default","field\_file\_image\_alt\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":"App card for the Google Authenticator application","field\_file\_image\_title\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":""},"type":"media","link\_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"App card for the Google Authenticator application","height":188,"width":379,"class":"media-element file-default"}}\]\]

[\[\[{"fid":"245","view\_mode":"default","fields":{"format":"default","field\_file\_image\_alt\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":"Google Play store button","field\_file\_image\_title\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":""},"type":"media","link\_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"Google Play store button","height":74,"width":239,"class":"media-element file-default"}}\]\]](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.authenticator2)[\[\[{"fid":"246","view\_mode":"default","fields":{"format":"default","field\_file\_image\_alt\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":"iOS App Store button","field\_file\_image\_title\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":""},"type":"media","link\_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"iOS App Store button","height":74,"width":239,"class":"media-element file-default"}}\]\]](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/google-authenticator/id388497605?mt=8)

1.  In your browser, *on a second device, such as a laptop or desktop*, visit the [Non-LBL Token Management](https://identity.lbl.gov/otptokens/hpccluster) web page.

REQUIREMENT: Before accessing this web page, you should have received an email invitation from BRC support asking you to link a personal account with your BRC HPC Cluster account. Please make sure you follow the instructions in that email. If you cannot locate the email, please check your Spam or Junk folder or else [contact BRC support](http://research-it.berkeley.edu/services/high-performance-computing/getting-help).

1.  Click the button for your personal account ("external identity") that you have chosen to manage your tokens, then follow the onscreen instructions to log in with your credentials for that account.

\[\[{"fid":"247","view\_mode":"default","fields":{"format":"default","field\_file\_image\_alt\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":"Token Management website screenshot","field\_file\_image\_title\_text\[und\]\[0\]\[value\]":""},"type":"media","link\_text":null,"attributes":{"alt":"Token Management website screenshot","height":246,"width":467,"class":"media-element file-default"}}\]\]

1.  From the “Token Management” page which appears, create a token by clicking on “Add an HPC Cluster/Linux Workstation token” and following the onscreen instructions. IMPORTANT: Remember the PIN that you are setting on the token.

After you’ve successfully created your new token, a QR code for that token will then be displayed.

1.  *Back on your smartphone or tablet*, from the menu of the Google Authenticator app, select “Add an account” and then “Scan a barcode”.

2.  Scan that QR code. (This will store the token in Google Authenticator.)

(Note: If your device does not already have a QR code reader app installed, the Google Authenticator app may first lead you through the process of installing one.)

1.  Verify that the Google Authenticator app is now generating one-time passwords. (Note: the one-time password will be displayed under the name “Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory” in that app.)

### Logging into Savio {#logging-into-savio}

1.  Make sure that the Google Authenticator app is running on your smartphone or tablet. (You’ll need to enter a one-time password displayed by this app at step 3, below.)

2.  On your laptop, desktop, or other device running a terminal/SSH program, connect to the Savio cluster via SSH; e.g.:

`ssh yourusername@hpc.brc.berkeley.edu`

(Be sure to substitute your actual Savio cluster username for the placeholder `yourusername` in the example above.)

1.  At the `Password:` prompt, enter the token PIN, followed immediately, without spaces, by the 6-digit one-time password currently displayed by the Google Authenticator app on your smartphone or tablet; e.g.:

`Password: PIN_hereOTP_here`

For instance, if your PIN was `9999` (hint: don’t use this example as your own PIN!), and the one time-password currently displayed by Google Authenticator was `123456`, you’d enter the following at the `Password:` prompt:

`Password: 9999123456`

 
